2. Age when parents first noticed that something was not quite right (months)4. Age (in months) when parents first noticed social or communication difficulties5. Onset as perceived in hindsight6. First sat unaided on flat surface (months)7. First walked unaided (months)8. Acquisition of bladder control: daytime9. Acquisition of bladder control: nighttime (months)10. Acquisition of bowel control (months)11. Usual mode of communication12. Use of others body to communicate (CURRENT)Use of others body to communicate (EVER)13. Social Chat/Vocalization14. Form of Current Non-Speech Vocalization15.  Babbling as an Infant16. Age of first single words (months)17. Current number of words (in the last week)18. Utterance length for non-echoed speech19.  Complexity of non-echoed utterances20.  Age of first phrases (if ever used)21.  Overall level of language22. Current communicative speech23.  Comprehension of simple language24. Loss of language skills25. Level of communicative language before losshow many words could child say before the loss?26. Loss of cooing27. Loss of vocalizations28. Loss of speech-like babbling29. Loss of vocal imitation30. Loss of spontaneous use of at least 3 meaningful words31. Loss of communicative intent32. Loss of syntactical skills (grammar)33. Loss of articulation (pronunciation)34. Age when main loss of language skills first apparent (months)35.   Association of loss of language with physical illness36. Gradual or sudden loss37.  Age when language skills began to come back (months)38.   Regain of same level before loss39. Loss of skills (skill must be lost for at least 1 month)40. Purposive hand movements41. Motor skills (Posture, gait, coordination)42. Self-help skills43. Constructive or imaginative play44. Social engagement and responsiveness45. Curiosity or alertness46. Age when main loss of skill first apparent (months)47. had the skill (response to name) before 24 months?had the skill (maintain eye contact) before 24 months?had the skill (respond to parent smile) before 24 months?had the skill (babble) before 24 months?had the skill (respond to smile of others) before 24 months?had the skill (play peek-a-boo) before 24 months?had the skill (say or understand Uh-oh) before 24 months?had the skill (say or understand Mommy) before 24 months?had the skill (react to There's Mommy/Daddy) before 24 months?had the skill (say or understand Hi) before 24 months?had the skill (understand come-here/come-on) before 24 months?had the skill (understand look/look-here) before 24 months?stopped using the skill (response to name) for a month or more before 36 mo.stopped using the skill (maintain eye contact) for a month or more before 36 mo.stopped using the skill (respond to parent smile) for a month or more before 36 mo.stopped using the skill (babble) for a month or more before 36 mo.stopped using the skill (respond to smile of others) for a month or more before 36 mo.stopped using the skill (play peek-a-boo) for a month or more before 36 mo.stopped using the skill (say or understand Uh-oh) for a month or more before 36 mo.stopped using the skill (say or understand Mommy) for a month or more before 36 mo.stopped using the skill (react to There's Mommy/Daddy) for a month or more before 36 mo.stopped using the skill (say or understand Hi) for a month or more before 36 mo.stopped using the skill (understand come-here/come-on) for a month or more before 36 mo.stopped using the skill (understand look/look-here) for a month or more before 36 mo.can do (response to name) nowcan do (maintain eye contact) nowcan do (respond to parent smile) nowcan do (babble) nowcan do (respond to smile of others) nowcan do (play peek-a-boo) nowcan do (say or understand Uh-oh) nowcan do (say or understand Mommy) nowcan do (react to There's Mommy/Daddy) nowcan do (say or understand Hi) nowcan do (understand come-here/come-on) nowcan do (understand look/look-here) nownever had the skill (response to name)never had the skill (maintain eye contact)never had the skill (respond to parent smile)never had the skill (babble)never had the skill (respond to smile of others)never had the skill (play peek-a-boo)never had the skill (say or understand Uh-oh)never had the skill (say or understand Mommy)never had the skill (react to There's Mommy/Daddy)never had the skill (say or understand Hi)never had the skill (understand come-here/come-on)never had the skill (understand look/look-here)48. Association of loss of skills with physical illness49. Age when skills began to return (months)50. Pointing to express interest51. Nodding52. Head shaking53.   Conventional/instrumental gestures54.  Understanding gestures55. Attention to voice56. Spontaneous imitation of actions57. Elicited vocal imitation58. Articulation/pronunciation59. Stereotyped utterances and delayed echolalia60. Inappropriate questions or statements61. Pronominal reversal62. Neologisms/idiosyncratic language63. Verbal rituals64. Intonation/volume/rhythm/rate65. Reciprocal conversation (at whatever verbal level of complexity possible)66. Direct gaze67.  Social smiling68.   Greeting (MOTHER)Greeting (FATHER)Greeting (OTHER)69. Showing and directing attention70. Offering to share71.  Seeking to share her/his enjoyment with others72.  Sharing others' pleasure and excitement73. Offering comfort74.  Coming for comfort (MOTHER)Coming for comfort (FATHER)Coming for comfort (OTHER)75. Quality of social overtures76. Range of facial expressions used to communicate77.  Inappropriate facial expressions78.  Social crying  (CRYING MUST HAVE TEARS TO BE SCORED)79.  Response to pain80. Appropriateness of social responses81.  Arms up to be lifted82.  Cuddliness, current (MOTHER )Cuddliness, as infant (Mother)Cuddliness, current (father)Cuddliness, as infant (father)Cuddliness, current (other)Cuddliness, as infant (Other)83.  Affection (MOTHER)Affection (FATHER)Affection (OTHER)84.  Discrimination (CURRENT)Discrimination (TYPICAL AT 12 MONTHS)85.  Secure Base (MOTHER)Secure Base (FATHER)Secure Base (OTHER)86.  Separation Anxiety (MOTHER)Separation Anxiety (FATHER)Separation Anxiety (OTHER)87. Functional Play with Toys88.   Imaginative Play89.  Initiation of appropriate activities90. Imitative social play91. Interest in children92. Response to approaches of other children93. Unusual preoccupations (CURRENT)Unusual preoccupations (EVER)Unusual preoccupations (AGE OF ONSET) (months)94. Circumscribed interests (CURRENT)Circumscribed interests (EVER)Circumscribed interests (AGE OF ONSET) (months)95. Repetitive use of objects or interest in parts of objects (CURRENT)Repetitive use of objects or interest in parts of objects (EVER)Repetitive use of objects or interest in parts of objects (AGE OF ONSET) (months)96. Compulsions/rituals (CURRENT)Compulsions/rituals (EVER)Compulsions/rituals (AGE OF ONSET) (months)97. Unusual sensory interests (CURRENT)Unusual sensory interests (EVER)Unusual sensory interests (AGE OF ONSET) (months)98. Undue general sensitivity to noise (CURRENT)Undue general sensitivity to noise (EVER)Undue general sensitivity to noise (AGE OF ONSET) (months)99. Abnormal, idiosyncratic, negative response to specific sensory stimuli (CURRENT)Abnormal, idiosyncratic, negative response to specific sensory stimuli (EVER)Abnormal, idiosyncratic, negative response to specific sensory stimuli (AGE OF ONSET) (months)100.  Unusual Fears (CURRENT)Unusual Fears (EVER)Unusual Fears (AGE OF ONSET) (months)101.  Difficulties with minor changes in childs own routines or personal environment (CURRENT)Difficulties with minor changes in childs own routines or personal environment (EVER)Difficulties with minor changes in childs own routines or personal environment (AGE OF ONSET)102.  Resistance to trivial changes in the environment (CURRENT)Resistance to trivial changes in the environment (EVER)Resistance to trivial changes in the environment (AGE OF ONSET) (months)103.  Unusual attachment to objects (CURRENT)Unusual attachment to objects (EVER)Unusual attachment to objects (AGE OF ONSET) (months)104.  Hand and finger mannerisms (CURRENT)Hand and finger mannerisms (EVER)Hand and finger mannerisms (AGE OF ONSET) (months)105.  Midline hand movements (CURRENT)Midline hand movements (EVER)Midline hand movements (AGE OF ONSET) (months)106.  Other complex mannerisms or stereotyped body movements (CURRENT)Other complex mannerisms or stereotyped body movements (EVER)Other complex mannerisms or stereotyped body movements (AGE OF ONSET) (months)107.  Rocking (CURRENT)Rocking (EVER)Rocking (AGE OF ONSET) (months)108.  Gait (CURRENT)Gait (EVER)Gait (AGE OF ONSET) (months)109.  Aggression toward caregivers or family members (CURRENT)Aggression toward caregivers or family members (EVER)Aggression toward caregivers or family members (AGE OF ONSET) (months)110.   Aggression toward noncaregivers or nonfamily members (CURRENT)Aggression toward noncaregivers or nonfamily members (EVER)Aggression toward noncaregivers or nonfamily members (AGE OF ONSET) (months)111.  Self-injury (CURRENT)Self-injury (EVER)Self-injury (AGE OF ONSET) (months)112.  Hyperventilation (CURRENT)Hyperventilation (EVER)Hyperventilation (AGE OF ONSET) (months)113.  Faints/fits/blackouts (CURRENT)Faints/fits/blackouts (EVER)Faints/fits/blackouts (AGE OF ONSET) (months)114.  Overactivity at home and elsewhere (CURRENT)Overactivity at home and elsewhere (EVER)115.  Problems getting child to bed (CURRENT)Problems getting child to bed (EVER)116.  Problems with sleeping (CURRENT)Problems with sleeping (EVER)117.  Tantrums (CURRENT)Tantrums (EVER)118.  Eating119.  Fine-motor coordination120.  Gross-motor coordination121.  Age when abnormality first evident122.  Interviewers judgment on age (mo.) when developmental abnormalities probably first manifest123. Visuospatial ability (CURRENT)Visuospatial ability (EVER)124. Memory skill (CURRENT)Memory skill (EVER)125. Music (CURRENT)Music (EVER)126. Letter recognition (CURRENT)Letter recognition (EVER)127. Drawing skill (CURRENT)Drawing skill (EVER)128. Counting (CURRENT)Counting (EVER)129. Manual dexterity (CURRENT)Manual dexterity (EVER)